                             MythDVD
                           Release 0.11

GENERAL INFO
------------

MythDVD is a MythTV module (see http://www.mythtv.org) that allows you to play
DVD's on a myth-box and (optionally) rip DVD's and transcode their video and
audio content to other (generally smaller) formats. The playing features are
simply myth-style wrappers for your favourite DVD playing software
(mplayer, ogle, xine, etc). The transcoding is based on and derived from the
excellent transcode package (see below).



BUILD INSTRUCTIONS
------------------

First, you need MythTV to be installed. If you don't have that
done, don't even bother with this, as it won't work.

Also, you need MythVideo installed (because mythDVD needs to know where you
like to store your videos, and that's defined in the MythVideo setup).

In addition to MythTV's prerequisites, you'll should have these software
packages installed for *transcoding* to work:

   libdvdread - Needed by transcode and most direct DVD players.
                Crucial for ripping functionality of mythDVD.
                Currently using 0.9.4
                http://www.dtek.chalmers.se/groups/dvd/downloads.shtml

         nasm - Not *strictly* required, but transcode seems happier
                if it's around. Using 0.98.36. You may want to do
                a ./configure --prefix=/usr/local
                http://nasm.sourceforge.net/

   mjpegtools - If you're using a hardware mjpeg capture card, you 
                almost certainly already have this. Transcode wants
                it in any case. Currently using 1.6.1.
                http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/
                Note that mjpegtools has dependencies of it's own,
                (libmovtar etc.) but that those packages are all 
                available at the mjpegtools site. This includes 
                avifile (0.7.38).

         xvid - A useful MPEG-4 compliant video codec, which is far
		more free than divx. 
                Currently using 0.9.1
                http://www.xvid.org/

       liba52 - Library for dealing with ATSC A/52 (AC-3) for dealing
                with DVD audio.
                http://liba52.sourceforge.net/

      libfame - Transcode will use this if it's installed.
                Currently 0.9.0
                http://fame.sourceforge.net/

    transcode - The core of the re-encoding process (most
                of the stuff above are actually things that
                transcode wants for full functionality). The
		more codecs you have installed, the better.
                Developers currently using 0.6.8
                http://www.theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de/
                ~ostreich/transcode/


If you want to be able to read encrypted DVD's, you might want to have this
installed as well:

    libdvdcss - A way to access the bits on that DVD you payed for.
                Probably want 1.2.7
                http://developers.videolan.org/pub/videolan/libdvdcss/   


To simply play DVD's (independent of transcoding), you will need a player.
These have their own dependencies, none of which are listed here. Depending
on your distribution, there may be pre-packaged versions of these
applications available. You'll want one or more of:

      mplayer - You probably already have this working if you have MythVideo
                installed. Try to install as many codecs as possible while
		you're at it.
                http://www.mplayerhq.hu/

         ogle - Another player.
                http://www.dtek.chalmers.se/groups/dvd/

         xine - Another player.
                http://xinehq.de/


Ok, still with me? To configure the source code for transcoding, type:

                ./configure --enable-transcode

For just playback, you can do:

                ./configure 

                or

                ./configure --disable-transcode

Next:

                make
                make install


DATABASE
--------

    You need to go into the ./dvddb and run the appropriate file. If
this is your first time installing mythdvd, then you probably just want to
do a:

	mysql -p -u mythtv < metadata.sql

    As with other myth modules, if you are upgrading a CVS version, run the
cvs.sql, and if you are moving to a new release version, run the appropriate
from-x-to-y.sql script (if any).


FILESYSTEMS
-----------

    MythDVD can often generate very large files. If you are doing perfect
rips, you probably want to make sure that your MythVideo file location
(where final files end up) is on a filesystem (ext3, etc.) that can handle
files larger than 2 gigabytes. Alternatively, you can set the MB limit for
perfect rip sizes in the setup screen. This limit is also used for
intermediate (perfect) files used during real transcoding jobs, so it should
be possible to rip *and* transcode a source file which is larger than 2
gigabytes on a filesystem which has a 2 gigabyte maximum file size.


SUBTITLES
---------

    Subtitling with transcode is pretty much a hit or miss affair. Some DVDs
work extremely well, and some generate awful results. If you find that
MythDVD transcodes a title with subtitles badly, you are encouraged to try
and use transcode from the command line. Hopefully, future versions of
transcode will over more robust subtitling capabilites.

CONFIGURATION
-------------

    You have to go into Setup (Top Level Myth Menu --> Setup --> DVD
Settings) and make some choice. A few (more or less random) thoughts on
these:

        * DVD device should probably be /dev/dvd

        * The command to play a DVD will often be something like
          "mplayer dvd://". But if you need to do special things to your
          sound card (to make it do 5.1 passthrough, for example) or
          otherwise mess with your system, there's no reason it can't be
          a custom shell script. This is also where you want to set 
          language and/or subtitle preferences, decide on menu mode, etc.
          If you come up with a decent shell script that might be of use
          to others, think about contributing it.

	* You can keep AC3 audio in the transcoded files. For Dolby 5.1,
	  this is probably a good choice as long as your myth box has
	  some way to handle 6 channel sounds (e.g. SB Live passthrough). 

	* Try and use xvid. It's free and open.

FOR MORE INFO
-------------

Feel free to subscribe to the development mailing list at:
http://www.snowman.net/mailman/listinfo/mythtv-dev

A list that's restricted to the CVS commit messages is available at:
http://www.snowman.net/mailman/listinfo/mythtv-commits

